RACIST
Keli Carender: People today, the worst thing
you can possibly call a person is racist.
Greg Rickel: When you hear the word racist,
what do you envision in your mind? Because
I think a lot of it is, you know a very extreme
version of what that is, instead of the very
subtle ways that we all do it, all participate
in it. All cause it to be real.
Cynthia Tee: I think the word racist just
gets thrown around a lot among all the kids,
you know whether they actually understand
what it means is an entirely different story.
Louis Chude-Sokei: I guess the classical definition
is a racist is someone who believes that
who you are, what you are capable of, everything
about you intellectually, spiritually, culturally,
historically is due to your race.
Michael Dixon: What makes people racist is
when they attach themselves
to an ideological movement. Us against them.
Keli: Calling somebody a racist is saying
that, I mean, that their heart is just filled with hate.
That they literally hate somebody
because of the way they look,
because of their skin color. That they want to discriminate against them.
A true racist is a very bad person.
Duck Bae: Racism associated with being like,
bad and evil, and so you're never going to
admit to yourself that you're racist.
Greg: Well, I am a racist. I say I am a recovering one.
Being a white male from the South, you know,
I think I'm probably in the category
that's the ultimate racist. And being marinated
in that all your life you can't help but carry
that with you. And what I see a lot of white
people do is decide they're not a racist,
“They're not talking to me or about me.
We sure do need to do something about it.
But it doesn't include me because what they're
talking about is something else.” And I
think that's the biggest, I would call it, sin.
I didn't really get to a place of dealing
with this until I was able to say I'm a racist.
Keli: If you go out of your way to accuse
somebody of something that now has been defined
as a very dirty, horrible thing, they're going
to be very much less likely to come to the
table and talk to you about things. Most of
the people in our country are good people.
Right? Most people have good intentions, most
people are trying.
Duck: Even if you associate racism with being
bad, and you yourself don't think you're a
bad person, you might still be part of the
problem.
Autumn Bennett: If you're walking past a certain
part of town, like you feel a little more
conscious of your purse, you may lock your
doors. That's like this natural instinct we
have to protect ourselves.
Michael: Like, I am a little intimidated to
be by myself walking down the street and say
there's a white woman come this way. If I'm
on the same sidewalk, I get as far over as I can.
Because I know. And because those are
some of the fears that people have.
Jerrell Davis: Everybody on earth has prejudice.
It's a survival tactic of human beings
Greg: You know when you're living in denial
that you're not a racist, then none of that
stuff is racism. “Oh I just made a mistake.
You know, I just made a mistake.”
Mark Olsen: I think you can say something
that is racist and it doesn't necessarily
mean that you are racist. And if I say something
that is racist and I don't mean to say it though.
But somebody perceives it as racist. That doesn't make me then this big, white racist person.
That makes me ignorant. And
maybe even stupid.
Tariqa Waters: I'm not going to bite my tongue
anymore, I'm not going to just take it.
I will call you out and say you know, “What
you're doing, you know, how you're addressing
me is racist.” And that gets scary in and
of itself because nobody wants to be called a racist.
And I understand that, but don't
say racist things then. It's 2016;
you know when you're being racist, you know when you being ignorant.
Mark: We tend to value perception and emotion
maybe over, kind of, facts.
If we feel like it's racist then it must be, when I don't know that that's always the case.
Keli: I think intent plays a lot into it.
I think about, like, murder charges. There's
manslaughter, right, versus murder.
Rachael DeCruz: Regardless of whatever someone's
intent was, like, the outcome and how you
feel is what matters and if, you know, if
you feel you're being discriminated against
because of your race, that's real.
Lorena Gonzalez: It could be that one time
when I went to go put in gas in a small Eastern
Washington town and the clerk refused to touch
my hand when I gave her money.
Tariqa: You know, “How did you get this
place?” You know, “Oh my god, how do you
afford to live here?” And thinking I sell
weed. Blatantly overt racist remarks.
I have not had it ever anywhere else but Seattle.
Darrell Hillaire: Our kids at the Academy
being called niggers to their face
in school by white kids.
Varisha Khan: People are leaving things at
our mosques, they’re leaving like pigs heads
and, you know, just people graffiti-ing, tagging
our schools, our, you know, Islamic schools.
I don't know if I'm going to be inside a mosque
when it's going to be firebombed at any point.
And people have been killed.
Keli: I believe in freedom and I think people
have the freedom to be prejudiced people.
It doesn't mean they're maybe going to have
very many friends or that they're going to
be very popular or they're going to get elected
to office.
Autumn: I believe yes there is individuals
who will always be racist. There's always
assholes in every category. There's no way
you can eliminate that because that is eliminating
opinion and mindset and how people have grown
up.
Mark: What's funny is we tend to, we tend
when we think of people being racist, we think
of it as white people against non-white people,
or non-people [sic] as white people.
We don't, we don't often think of the different minorities
being racist against each other.
Darrell: There's no such thing as like reverse
racism or, you know, white racism.
Racism is racism.
Greg: I don't agree with people that say that
everybody can be racist. I don't really buy
it because to me, race is really attached
to power and privilege.
So in different societies it may be different, but I think in our society, white people have to own this more.
Jerrell: I mean that's true. Yes I think it's
true that black people can't be racist.
We can be hella discriminatory. We can be hella
prejudice. Yeah, but they can't be racist
because they don't have a system and a structure
and an institution that's attached to those
beliefs that give them a leg up in all situations.
Darrell: Racism is a is a result of ignorance.
When you think about ignorance,
what's missing from ignorance is empathy.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION